The  Natural Language Processing as a Domain has evolved over the past few years. We have got  seen several breakthroughs- ULMFiT, ELMo, BERT, among several  others. These have vastly contributed to the State-of-the-art research in NLP. currently, We are able to predict the succeeding sentence, given a sequence of preceding words. the downstream NLP tasks have depended heavily on the pre-trained word embeddings, both due to their ability to enhance learning and generalization with information learned from untagged/unlabelled information, moreover the relative ease of including them into any learning methodologies. Several recently proposed approaches transcend the initial “one word, one embedding” paradigm to better model additional features such as subword structures and meaning ambiguity. Even though having several advantages, such embeddings have the disadvantage that they can’t be accustomed to simply initialize the embedding layer of a neural network and thus require specific reworkings of the general model architecture. The challenges raised by the different word embeddings are effectively addressed by FLAIR. Developed & open-sourced by Zalando Research; FLAIR is a simple natural language processing (NLP) library/framework. PyTorch, which is used as the building block for the FLAIR’s framework, is a renowned deep learning framework. the framework provides a single, simple and unified interface for word and document embeddings which are conceptually different. The interface effectively hides all embedding-specific engineering complexity and permits researchers to “mix and match” various embeddings with very little effort to produce state of the art results. The framework additionally implements customary model training and hyperparameter selection routines. One of the interesting components of FLAIR is the inbuilt data fetching module. The module can access publicly available datasets and mold those into data structures for various experiments with ease. The framework is supplied with pre-trained models for following NLP tasks: Name-Entity Recognition (NER), Parts-of-Speech Tagging (PoS), Text Classification, sense disambiguation and classification, Training Custom Models. FLAIR runs on python and the minimum version requirement is python 3.6 in the environment. The library can be installed using pip,  the command: pip install flair.
                                        All this appears promising but what sets FLAIR apart is that it has outperformed several state-of-the-art results in NLP including Allen AI, Bi-directional LSTMs. What provides FLAIR the edge? The solution lies within the features embedded in the FLAIR library. It contains popular and state-of-the-art word embeddings, such as GloVe, BERT, ELMo, Character Embeddings, etc. FLAIR API enables us to use all these with great ease. variant word embeddings can be combined together as a single embedding model and embed datasets using the latest FLAIR interface. This methodology of combining various embeddings has enhanced the traditional benchmarks in NLP and produced a significant rise in the F1 scores of major NLP tasks. Apart from the individual embeddings and the combination of embeddings, FLAIR also provides its own signature embedding called  ‘FLAIR Embedding’. The FLAIR embedding is characterized by its unique contextual string embeddings. Context plays a major role in predicting the next character from the knowledge learned from the previous characters and it forms the cornerstone of sequence modeling. Contextual String Embeddings leverage the internal states of a trained character language model to produce a novel type of word embedding. In simple terms, it uses certain internal principles of a trained character model, such that words can have different meanings in different sentences.
                                     FLAIR with its contextualized representations/embeddings holds the knowledge of syntactic and semantic information that can be used to improve several downstream NLP tasks. FLAIR has set clear benchmarks in word embeddings and stacked word embeddings. These can be implemented without much hassle due to its high-level API. the future is bright for the FLAIR embedding and is continuously producing strides in the NLP domain.
